>> Steve Kinney: So
we take a look at AppSync.
We'll start by looking at
it in the Dashboard, and
then we'll go ahead and implement it in
a clean slate version of our React app.
So the master that we started
earlier today on, we'll go back and
implement that again
with AppSync this time.
Cool, so this is AppSync if you've
never made an AppSync API before.
If you have, you'll see some
of your existing ones there.
But this is the kind of tabula rasa for
AppSync for the first time.
So I'll go ahead and
I'll hit this Create API button.
And I have a few options here.
I have some kind of pre-baked ones that
kinda just show you how AppSync works.
So there's an event app, a chat app,
a tasks app, and a blog app.
Cuz what demo of any Java script
technology's not complete without a tasks
app, right?
You need to make a to do list.
Let's just look at one.
Let's look at the event app for a second,
just to see what a fully fleshed-out
AppSync API might look like.
So these are events that have comments.
And you can see that comments
will be tied to an event ID.
They'll have their own comment ID,
so on and so forth.
They'll have comment ID, so on, so forth.
You can see, it's basically saying
what are the properties and
what are the types of those properties?
And those exclamation points
basically mean that it's required.
Cool, so we have this idea of the comment.
We have an event with the different
properties there as well.
We'll get into these comment
connections in a second.
Those are interesting ways to do
pagination if you have a lot of something.
When we make our API, we'll actually
explore it a little bit more.
So we have this idea of type.
So what are the kind of
nouns in our application?
What kind of things do we have?
At the same time, we also have mutations.
How do we change things in our database?
We can create new events.
This is changing the data store.
And then finally, we have queries,
which are how do we get stuff
out of our GraphicUL API?
So in this case, get-event.
We pass an ID.
We'll get that event.
List events is going to give us
a list of events, so on and so forth.
We also have some kind of built-in
filtering in this case as well.
So there's a lot that we kind of get.
This is, again, a fully fleshed-out one.
But I'm actually gonna show you how easy
it is to get to this state even when you
author it from scratch.
So we'll go ahead, and
we're gonna author it from scratch, and
you'll see how quickly we can
arrive at the station, if you will.
So go ahead, and we'll name it Grudges.
And we'll hit Create.
Cool, so here, we get the API URL, API ID,
Auth mode, and so on and so forth.
If we need to download this configuration,
you can see you can get it for
a number of different platforms.
In our case, we will go ahead and
download the React version.
We're gonna modify this a little bit,
but we'll download it for now.
Let's actually go ahead and
look at Schema, right?
And so before,
with the event that was built in,
you saw that we had
a lot of stuff in there.
There was a lot of various different,
the ability to get stuff, change stuff,
the different types.
Let's look at something kind of
that works for our application.
We know what a grudge is,
we've been working with grudges all day.
We've been harboring them,
we've been dwelling on them.
We know that a grudge has an ID.
And this ID type is basically just
a unique string in this case.
We know that there is
a person that wronged us.
That will be a string.
>> Steve Kinney: And we know that
there is something that they did.
That is also a string.
And then, whether or not we have avenged
that grudge, which is a Boolean.
>> Steve Kinney: And the exclamation
point at the end is not to just be strong
about our emotions, but
also say that these are required fields.
That it would need to have these
properties in place in order for
it to be a valid grudge.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, and
then we saw a little bit about queries.
So we can do something like
fetchGrudges or listGrudges, or
something along those lines.
This is actually not
gonna matter too much.
And you'll see in a second.
Which will be an array of
grudges that we'll get back.
Cool, so
with this kind of basics in place,
we can actually hit
the Save Schema button.
>> Steve Kinney: And it will go ahead and
kind of figure out what our schema is.
Now, we have a problem
that's not dissimilar from
a problem we had earlier today,
which is a schema is cool and great.
In the same way having an API is fine and
wonderful.
But unless you have a database to
back it up, right, its not very good.
Arguably, the opposite is true.
Before we could create databases but
unless we had an API in front of it,
there was no way to get stuff in and
out of the database.
So the nice thing about AppSync is
that it's pretty easy to create
the DynamoDB databases behind the API.
We have this fancy
Create Resources button up here.
And we can define a new type,
which is very similar to what I just did.
Or we can use an existing type,
which is what I wrote in that
previous one as we were talking.
Actually, we want Grudge.
Cool, and then it will figure out okay,
I should probably make DynamoDB
table that is a Grudge table.
We'll say that the primary key is ID.
That seems good.
We're not gonna use a sort key for now.
And we have the switch to
automatically generate GraphQL.
Remember all that fancy stuff I
showed you with event before, and
you're like I don't wanna write all that,
I'm very lazy?
I'm very tired right now,
I don't wanna write all of that.
Luckily, you don't have to.
This is going to be,
based on that type that we just created,
all of the GraphQL that
AppSync creates for us.
Which is, again, very similar to all the
things that we saw when it came time to
look at the events earlier.
And you can see, we've got the ability
to Update, Delete, Create.
We have the ability to Search and filter.
We have that Grudge connection,
which we'll talk about shortly.
So this is very similar to
the events that we had before.
So Author from Scratch is
a little bit disingenuous
because while we selected
Author from Scratch,
AWS is doing a lot of
the heavy lifting for us.
So we'll go ahead and we'll scroll down.
We'll hit Create.
And you'll get this please do not refresh
as it creates the Dynamo DB table.
I have never tempted fate and
tried to refresh despite
oppositional defiance disorder.
Cool, so now,
we have this resource creation complete.
And you can see,
we have this brand new schema in place,
which is much more robust
than the previous schema.
And just to kind of prove to
you I can open up a new tab.
>> Steve Kinney: We can go ahead and
check out, go to the Console.
>> Steve Kinney: So I'm just gonna
go into the DynamoDB section of AWS,
and just basically prove to both you and
myself that a DynamoDB
database was created.
So I go to Tables,
there is that GrudgeTable that
we created earlier, right?
So we defined a very
simple GraphQL schema.
We hit Save Schema.
And then, we hit Create Resources.
And a database was built for
us under the hood.
As we go and
add stuff through GraphQL, this is
the database that's going to be populated.
So you can start with AppSynch,
and if you decide later on that
you don't want to use AppSynch or
whatever, you have a just regular old
DynamoDB database under the hood.
So let's go back, and
let's play around with this a little bit.
>> Steve Kinney: So we've got our
resources, we've got our schema.
Let's go into this Queries section.
And we can begin to work with
the schema a little bit.